
				HADR
		1. Back up and restore
		2. Log Shipping (manual failover)
		3. Mirroring (automatic failover)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
		challenges with mirroring
	a. you can have only 1 secondary server where the data is in sync
		(what if both the servers went down)
	b. 2nd server is in no-recovery - cannot read the data as well
----
		c. we want to include multiple servers
		d. multiple servers can be a part of read and write operations as well 
		e. we want this for limited tables/objects only 

	so such requirements we also have light weight but strong solution - Replication
		based on PUB-SUB model (Publisher and subscriber model)
			Publisher - server - which will publish the data - Times of India
			Distributor - agent - which will distribute specific data to specific servers
			Subscriber - consumer - which will take subscription for the new data

	There are 4 different types of replications
		a. snapshot replication - suitable for bulk data (publish 1ce and subscriber can take it 			when ever they want)
		b. transactional replication - live transactions to be passed to the subscriber server
			suitable for small amount of data, but live data to be passed instantantly
			this has advantage over Mirroring
				a. you can include multiple subscriber (multiple secondary)
				b. subscriber can read and write the data as well on their instance
		(but be careful, in case of a lock of row for same record it goes into a deadlock)
		(also, in case of failover, you will need to manually failover, this is not automatic)
		
		c. Merge replication - bidirectional - 2 ways
			here subscriber can also make changes to data and it gets reflected/passed to pub

		d. peer-to-peer - multiple publishers and subscribers - all 2 ways
-------------------
		Synchronous and Asynchronous 
		Synchronous - data is commited once both the server commits - else rollback
			high latency - little slower
		Asynchronous - faster - primary commits and sends a copy to 2ndry for commit 
		
		
		







