
						HADR 


		1. Backups (Helpful for DR)
			Types
			stratergies and planning 
			Types of files
			Duration/Period
			Automation 
		2. For High avability (Log shipping) - this are  the live transactions been backup
			this backup can be then quicky stored on to other server (automated)
			and other server can be made active (manually) - may take 3-5 mins
		3. To make this auto - even at 2 AM when admin has gone down for a coffee/smoke
			we need automatic failover
			(Mirroring) - super helpful and fantastic feature (you need 2 server/instance)
				1. Principal (Active)
				2. Secondary (Passive)
				3. Optional (watcher)
			all 3 managed by sql agent
		4. Problem with above is 
		a. what if both the servers goes down !! (business is down) !! applications are down
		b. database on secondary server is non accessible, its locked and only agent has access to 			if for transferrig the backups (cannot be even used for reading purpose)

		5. Always On !!  (more stronger hardware and initial configuration is bit lengthy 
					almost 24 steps - including OS)
			support for 6 (including cloud) instances instead of 2 
			1 primary
			2 others read only possible
---------------------------------------------Replication

		1. Replicate the data from a database server onto other server at a timed interval
		by using different techniques 
		2. I want to make databases on both the servers as read and write 
			and also want to keep then synchronous with each other 
			this can be achieved using replication

		3. Lets say we have a global server where all the data is collected 
			(Banking) - all the transaction of India is collected at 1 server (Koklatta)
			we need to distribute the transactions of respective cities to their offices and 
			there servers
			we have server in Mumbai, please send all the transactions for Mumbai onto Mumbai 			server

			and similarly for other 20 cities (automated at 4PM daily)

			or else vice-versa

			this can be done useing replication 



		

		










		




					
